Very good afteroon to every one. 

 
Fine,  well start with today session   the topic is about  - 


"How to Overcome Your Fear of --   Public Speaking, Stop Thinking About Yourself"


Most of us - even those who the top level speakers  -- strugle  with public speaking  because of       anxiety.

When we discuss or ask about them?? 

what makes them  nervous ??    and how do they answer ??

Why do we get  nerveouse can any one telll  ?? 
 
 
Okay

"I dont like being wathced by someone"
"I dont like people eye on me "
"I dont like being soptlight."


Yes 


These are the some of the answers we get.


And   it even       follows them,  when they are get up to speak, nealry all of us initially avoid eye contact with the members of audience.

So therein lies the problem:

While we avoiding direct eye conact may it seems like  speaking with anxiety, and it actually makes more nervous.

To Understand why???   we need to go back to some  prehistoric times,

When humans perceived eyes, perceived means feeling or for the language in tamil உணரப்பட்டது pola,,

So when humans perceived eyes, wathching an extesntial threat.  and Those eyes were like predators. People were   teriffed of being eaten alive.   

The thing is we are seeing something strange animal and fearing about that might eat us.

So 

IN response to that prehistoric  reality,  the amygdala (The amygdala is a collection of cells near the base of the brain. ) , the part of our

 brain helps us respond to danger, will make us to gear our fear an (emotional memories).


SO we understandably feel intense of stress and anxiety.  


Now coming back, What does this have do  with public speaking???


Lets turn out everything..


Here is the bad news: Our brain have transffered, that the  ancient fear of being watching on to public speaking.

In other word   public speaking anxiety is in our DNA.

This has been physcoligically register with an audience and how the body would react to physical signs of danger

thy feel Shortness of breath, redness of face, and shaking.. are some of the symptoms


This all beacuse of our brain tell us we are underattack, 

So even confident speakers itselfs  find ways to distance from audience. And it how we are programmed.



And Fourtunately: there is a solution:: Is Human generoustiy ( the quality of being kind and generous ) (பெருந்தன்மை)

Its an key to calming the amygdala emotional memories  makes  us to disarming our organic panic  and to focus away from ourselfs..


Studies shown that increase in generosity leads decrese in amygdala  emotional memories  activity. Which leads to inactive the vagus nerves, which has power to  calm and respond


The same principle applies in public speaking also.

When we approch speaking with genrosity, it counter reacts with and start us to feel less nervours.


This is hard to do, but is possible to beacame generous speaker.


So Will share you with the three steps: - 


- >> Firstly,  when we are preparing think about your audience:-

Dont think the about topic... in details..

Instead of Topic, start with audieance...

Who is the audience,?? Why are they here???? What they need????? 

So identify their needs and be specfic...

Secondly, Write before you speak, refocus your brain: --


We will be most nevourse right before we speak.    At this second our brain is telling you that,, 

"Everyone is judging me, What if I fail"

At this time we should refocus your brain to help your audience, think you are here to help audience not for you.

 
Third and finally:  While you speaking, make eye contact.:


One of the biggest mistake we do is scanning the walls, trying to look everyone  and endup  connecting with no body.

In reality           every person is listeing to you individually, and so make eye contact to one by one 

individually which feels like  talking to them.

This also hard ,   contact is uncomforatble at first ,, but actually  it make us less nevoruseness


Hence , we came to know the power of generosity purpose and meaning.

Generosity is powerfull in speaking.

Generous speakers are  calmer, more relaxed and more effective way to reach audience.

So  I conclude by saying that be generous.
Thank you..














